Friends here or concepts or how Docker identifies
a container and how to name or rename Docker containers.
Now let me go with that.
See by default, Docker uses three ways to identify any container.
They are using UUID,
long shot, and name.
So here you UID means universally unique ID.
Let me show you them on our command line C,
this is our docker host.
Now already we are running with some containers.
These are the running containers on my Docker host.
Now if you update this output for every container,
you how one container ID.
This is nothing but actually UUID short ID.
And anyway, for this container already we have some name.
Now let me show you UUID long.
Say if you want to see the UUID long,
we have a command called docker inspect.
We will see in detail about inspect command later.
As of now, just let me go with that docker.
Inspect. You can provide your container ID.
That is nothing but UUID is short. Just enter.
Now see that very first,
you will get your UUID long.
Let me scroll up.
This is UUID long.
And here if you observe in this part is your UUID shot,
see that this part is nothing but your container ID.
That is you UID shot.
And one more thing, you are docker will use either container ID,
that is nothing but UUID short or UUID longer AD,
or even a name of your container to work with your containers.
Now see, what I am doing is docker inspect.
Instead of giving container ID,
I can also provide name of your container C that it is giving same output.
That means Docker is using any one of these three names to identify your containers.
That's fine.
Now, let me go with how to provide a custom name to
a container C. Whenever if you create a container using docker run command,
it will create a container by giving some random name to your container.
Now let me create one container by using docker run hyphen,
hyphen D. Then let's say I want to create sent weighs six dot A2 or Shen.
Now see that while creating this container,
it is giving UUID long.
That's fine. Now in days,
actually the first two characters are nothing but your container ID.
Now let me do one thing, docker ps c,
that up to this.
That is what container ID.
Anyway, whenever if you create a container for your container,
automatically, you are going to get one container ID on also are going to get some name.
Not this name is random name,
but I want to do my custom name to that.
Yes, we can provide, no,
let me create one more container by taking same image.
But now I am giving custom name with option as hyphen, hyphen name.
Let's say we are using this container to run some headshot application.
Now I'm taking head char app container.
That's, you know, let me run.
Now, let me run docker ps c that this is the container just no weekly at it.
And now further, we have given our custom name.
So this is the way how we can provide a custom name to a container.
We can also rename of an existing container and see how we can do it.
Very simple using Docker rename,
you were adjusting container name with a new name.
Let me do that for one of the container.
Suppose I'm using this container,
simply docker, rename your old name.
I mean existing name of your container.
Then new name.
Let's say this container I will use just to run some for employee salaries.
Just assume they're not treat.
Now let me run docker ps c that previously we were having different name.
Now we have given our custom name,
we renamed existing container name.
That's it.
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.